Added new React Guide for Authenticated Routes (#1675)
aws-amplify/amplify-ui: docs/src/pages/guides/auth-protected/auth-protected.react.mdx

import { Image } from '@aws-amplify/ui-react';

The [Amplify UI Authenticator](/components/authenticator) component allows you to quickly scaffold out an end-to-end authentication flow, in
just a few lines of code.

Typically, this can be accomplished by wrapping the entire application in the [withAuthenticator](components/authenticator?platform=react#quick-start) higher-order component.
This forces the entire application behind a login page.

> Let's imagine you needed a web application where the login page was in it's own route, and that you needed a handful of selected routes

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Let's imagine you needed a web application where the login page was in its own route, and that you needed a handful of selected routes
```

Author: 👍

Author: 7c6ee573f1e15b8407892dfd8552ea416e8cdf63

> to only be accessed by logged in users.

Reviewer: Looks like there's a newline here, this should be removed and let markdown handle line breaks.

Author: I was creating my own line breaks so it wasn't one super long line. But maybe my editor will do it automatically?

Author: 7c6ee573f1e15b8407892dfd8552ea416e8cdf63

Reviewer: VS code has "Toggle word wrap" option that I like to use for markdown files 🙏

Author: Nice! That works :)

Reviewer 2: oh that is so nice, how have I gone this long without knowing about that

This guide demonstrates that scenario while using the [Amplify UI Authenticator](/components/authenticator) and the [Amplify CLI](https://docs.amplify.aws/cli/).

> If you'd like to follow along, please use this example [Github repo](https://github.com/ErikCH/protected-route-amplify-react). Additionally,
> you can watch this [video](https://youtu.be/6f635LVtwgk) that walks through this process, and includes a bonus section on how to create a lambda function
> with a custom authorizer.

_Example Screenshot of App_

<Image
  alt="Example screenshot of the route guard application."
  height={{ base: '25rem', medium: '25rem' }}

>   display="block"

Author: I checked this image looked ok on mobile.

  objectFit="contain"
  style={{ margin: '0 auto' }}
  src="/example-auth-routes.png"
/>

### Setup

To get started we'll need to create a new React application, by following these steps:

```bash
npx create-react-app new-auth-app
cd new-auth-app
```

Next, install the Amplify libraries and React Router.

```bash

> npm i @aws-amplify/ui-react aws-amplify react-router-dom@6

Reviewer: Qq, why specifically `@6`?

Author: That's what the official guide shows. https://reactrouter.com/docs/en/v6/getting-started/installation#basic-installation

Author: 7c6ee573f1e15b8407892dfd8552ea416e8cdf63

```

To add authentication to your application we'll need to install the Amplify CLI. This tool gives us a command line utility

> to add AWS services.

Reviewer: Remove new line here. There are a few more after this, we should remove it so line breaks happen naturally based on readers' font size.

Author: OK, I'll fix those.

Author: 7c6ee573f1e15b8407892dfd8552ea416e8cdf63

Reviewer: Thanks!

```jsx
// components/Login.js
import { useEffect } from 'react';

import { Authenticator, useAuthenticator, View } from '@aws-amplify/ui-react';
import '@aws-amplify/ui-react/styles.css';

import { useNavigate, useLocation } from 'react-router';

export function Login() {
  const { route } = useAuthenticator((context) => [context.route]);
  const location = useLocation();
  const navigate = useNavigate();
  let from = location.state?.from?.pathname || '/';

  useEffect(() => {
    if (route === 'authenticated') {
      navigate(from, { replace: true });
    }
  }, [route, navigate, from]);

  return (
    <View className="auth-wrapper">
      <Authenticator></Authenticator>
    </View>
  );
}
```

Let's take a look at this line in more detail:

```js
const { route } = useAuthenticator((context) => [context.route]);
```

The [useAuthenticator](/components/authenticator#useauthenticator-hook) hook is used to access, modify, and update the
Authenticator's auth state. In this example we destructure `useAuthenticator` and receive the `route`. The `route` can be used to tell if a route is `authenticated` or not.

> The `route` can also be set to `signIn`,`signOut`, or even `idle` depending on where the customer is during the authentication flow.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The `route` can also be set to `signIn`,`signOut`, and even `idle` or `setup` depending on where the user is during the authentication flow.
```

Author: 👍

Author: 7c6ee573f1e15b8407892dfd8552ea416e8cdf63

}, [route, navigate, from]);
```

When the `route` changes to `authenticated` the `useEffect` will trigger and the user will be navigated to the previous location.

Alternatively, instead of using `route` this can also be accomplished using `Auth.currentAuthenticatedUser()`. This promise from the `aws-amplify` [library](https://docs.amplify.aws/lib/auth/manageusers/q/platform/js/)
will return the `user` information back. If the user isn't logged in the promise will reject.

## Adding in a RequireAuth Component

Let's take a look at `RequireAuth` next. This component will be used to gate whether a route can be accessed or not. Routes that
are **NOT** authenticated will be redirected back to `/login`. State will also be preserved.

If the customer is logged in, the `route` will be set to `authenticated`, and the user can continue on.

Create a new file called `RequireAuth.js` and add the code below:

```jsx
// RequireAuth.js
import { useLocation, Navigate } from 'react-router-dom';
import { useAuthenticator } from '@aws-amplify/ui-react';

export function RequireAuth({ children }) {
  const location = useLocation();
  const { route } = useAuthenticator((context) => [context.route]);

>   if (route !== 'authenticated') {

Reviewer: Would this line have the same problem on refresh where `route` is initially `idle` and prematurelly navigate to `/login` even if user is authenticated?

Author: Yes, it would. But the `/login` route has a check if they are `authenticated` or not. If they are authenticated it re-routes back. So the user wouldn't really notice any issue.

Maybe if they could try `Auth.currentAuthenticatedUser` if they didn't like the redirect back to the `/login` page. But that should only happen if they decide to refresh the page on a protected route.

Author: I'll add an additional note for the user explaining this scenario.

Author: 7c6ee573f1e15b8407892dfd8552ea416e8cdf63

Reviewer: Awesome, thanks!

    return <Navigate to="/login" state={{ from: location }} replace />;
  }
  return children;

> }

Author: I found this pattern in the React router dom guide.
